docs/guide/upgrading.md, before:

# Upgrading to v8

This is the migration guide for upgrading from v7 to v8.

Since v8 has not yet been released, this is a work in progress list of any major and breaking changes in v8.

::: info Not the version you are looking for?

- [Upgrading to v7](https://v7.fakerjs.dev/guide/upgrading.html)
- [Upgrading to v6](https://v6.fakerjs.dev/migration-guide-v5/)

:::

## Breaking changes

### Removed ability to change the locale on existing `Faker` instances

::: tip Note
If you are using only the default (`en`) locale, then you don't have to change anything.
:::

In order to facilitate better and easier locale fallback mechanics, we removed the methods to change the locales on existing `Faker` instances.
Now, we expose specific faker instances for each locale that you can use:

**Old**

```ts
import { faker } from '@faker-js/faker';

faker.setLocale('de_CH');
// or
faker.locale = 'de_CH';
faker.fallbackLocale = 'en';
```

**New**

```ts
import { fakerDE_CH as faker } from '@faker-js/faker';
```

This also fixes issues where more than two locales are required:

**Old**

```ts
import { faker } from '@faker-js/faker';

const customFaker = new Faker({
  locale: 'de_CH', // the expected locale
  fallbackLocale: 'de', // ensure we have a German fallbacks for addresses
  locales: { de_CH, de, en },
});
const a = customFaker.internet.email();
customFaker.locale = 'en'; // neither 'de_CH' nor 'de' have emojis
const b = customFaker.internet.emoji();
```

**New**

```ts
import { Faker, de_CH, de, en, base } from '@faker-js/faker';

// same as fakerDE_CH
export const customFaker = new Faker({
  // Now multiple fallbacks are supported
  locale: [de_CH, de, en, base],
});
const a = customFaker.internet.email();
const b = customFaker.internet.emoji();
```

If you wish to create entries for multiple locales, you can still do so:

**Old**

```ts
import { faker } from '@faker-js/faker';

for (let user of users) {
  const lang = faker.helpers.arrayElement(['de', 'en', 'fr']);
  faker.locale = lang;
  user.email = faker.internet.email();
}
```

**New**

```ts
import { faker, fakerDE, fakerEN, fakerFR } from '@faker-js/faker';

for (let user of users) {
  const currentFaker = faker.helpers.arrayElement([fakerDE, fakerEN, fakerFR]);
  user.email = currentFaker.internet.email();
}
```

For more information refer to our [Localization Guide](localization).

### `faker.mersenne` and `faker.helpers.repeatString` removed

`faker.mersenne` and `faker.helpers.repeatString` were only ever intended for internal use, and are no longer available.

### `faker.location.zipCodeByState`

The `faker.location.zipCodeByState` method has been deprecated, but will also now throw an error if the current locale does not have a `postcode_by_state` definition.

### Other deprecated methods removed/replaced

| Old method                      | New method                                                                                                      |
| ------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `faker.unique`                  | `faker.helpers.unique` (:warning: please have a look at [#1785](https://github.com/faker-js/faker/issues/1785)) |
| `faker.fake`                    | `faker.helpers.fake`                                                                                            |
| `faker.commerce.color`          | `faker.color.human`                                                                                             |
| `faker.company.companyName`     | `faker.company.name`                                                                                            |
| `faker.phone.phoneNumber`       | `faker.phone.number`                                                                                            |
| `faker.phone.phoneNumberFormat` | No direct replacement, see documentation for `faker.phone.number`                                               |
| `faker.phone.phoneFormats`      | No direct replacement, see documentation for `faker.phone.number`                                               |
| `faker.name.findName`           | _Removed, replace with `faker.person.fullName`_                                                                 |
| `faker.address.cityPrefix`      | _Removed_                                                                                                       |
| `faker.address.citySuffix`      | _Removed_                                                                                                       |
| `faker.address.streetPrefix`    | _Removed_                                                                                                       |
| `faker.address.streetSuffix`    | _Removed_                                                                                                       |
| `faker.image.lorempixel`        | _Removed, as the LoremPixel service is no longer available_                                                     |

### Definitions removed

Some data definitions, which were only available via the `faker.helpers.fake` method, or the undocumented `faker.definitions`, have been removed.

| Removed data                                          | Alternative                        |
| ----------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| `faker.definitions.business.credit_card_numbers`      | `faker.finance.creditCardNumber()` |
| `faker.definitions.business.credit_card_types`        | `faker.finance.creditCardIssuer()` |
| `faker.definitions.business.credit_card_expiry_dates` | `faker.date.future()`              |

## Deprecations and other changes

### `faker.name` changed to `faker.person`

The whole `faker.name` module is now located at `faker.person`, as it contains more information than just names.
The `faker.name.*` methods will continue to work as an alias in v8 and v9, but it is recommended to change to `faker.person.*`

| Old method                 | New method                                      |
| -------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| `faker.name.firstName`     | `faker.person.firstName`                        |
| `faker.name.lastName`      | `faker.person.lastName`                         |
| `faker.name.middleName`    | `faker.person.middleName`                       |
| `faker.name.fullName`      | `faker.person.fullName`                         |
| `faker.name.gender`        | `faker.person.gender`                           |
| `faker.name.sex`           | `faker.person.sex`                              |
| `faker.name.sexType`       | `faker.person.sexType`                          |
| `faker.name.prefix`        | `faker.person.prefix`                           |
| `faker.name.suffix`        | `faker.person.suffix`                           |
| `faker.name.jobTitle`      | `faker.person.jobTitle`                         |
| `faker.name.jobDescriptor` | `faker.person.jobDescriptor`                    |
| `faker.name.jobArea`       | `faker.person.jobArea`                          |
| `faker.name.jobType`       | `faker.person.jobType`                          |
| `faker.name.findName`      | _Removed, replace with `faker.person.fullName`_ |

### `faker.address` changed to `faker.location`

The whole `faker.address` module is now located at `faker.location`, as it contains more information than just addresses.
The `faker.address.*` methods will continue to work as an alias in v8 and v9, but it is recommended to change to `faker.location.*`

| Old method                          | New method                           |
| ----------------------------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| `faker.address.buildingNumber`      | `faker.location.buildingNumber`      |
| `faker.address.cardinalDirection`   | `faker.location.cardinalDirection`   |
| `faker.address.city`                | `faker.location.city`                |
| `faker.address.cityName`            | `faker.location.cityName`            |
| `faker.address.country`             | `faker.location.country`             |
| `faker.address.countryCode`         | `faker.location.countryCode`         |
| `faker.address.county`              | `faker.location.county`              |
| `faker.address.direction`           | `faker.location.direction`           |
| `faker.address.faker`               | `faker.location.faker`               |
| `faker.address.latitude`            | `faker.location.latitude`            |
| `faker.address.longitude`           | `faker.location.longitude`           |
| `faker.address.nearbyGPSCoordinate` | `faker.location.nearbyGPSCoordinate` |
| `faker.address.ordinalDirection`    | `faker.location.ordinalDirection`    |
| `faker.address.secondaryAddress`    | `faker.location.secondaryAddress`    |
| `faker.address.state`               | `faker.location.state`               |
| `faker.address.stateAbbr`           | `faker.location.stateAbbr`           |
| `faker.address.street`              | `faker.location.street`              |
| `faker.address.streetAddress`       | `faker.location.streetAddress`       |
| `faker.address.streetName`          | `faker.location.streetName`          |
| `faker.address.timeZone`            | `faker.location.timeZone`            |
| `faker.address.zipCode`             | `faker.location.zipCode`             |
| `faker.address.zipCodeByState`      | `faker.location.zipCodeByState`      |
| `faker.address.cityPrefix`          | _Removed_                            |
| `faker.address.citySuffix`          | _Removed_                            |
| `faker.address.streetPrefix`        | _Removed_                            |
| `faker.address.streetSuffix`        | _Removed_                            |

### Number methods of `faker.datatype` moved to new `faker.number` module

The number-related methods previously found in `faker.datatype` have been moved to a new `faker.number` module.
For the old `faker.datatype.number` method you should replace with `faker.number.int` or `faker.number.float` depending on the precision required.

By default, `faker.number.float` no longer defaults to a precision of 0.01

```js
// OLD
faker.datatype.number({ max: 100 }); // 35
faker.datatype.number({ max: 100, precision: 0.01 }); // 35.21
faker.datatype.float({ max: 100 }); // 35.21
faker.datatype.float({ max: 100, precision: 0.001 }); // 35.211

// NEW
faker.number.int({ max: 100 }); // 35
faker.number.float({ max: 100 }); // 35.21092065742612
faker.number.float({ max: 100, precision: 0.01 }); // 35.21
```

| Old method              | New method                                 |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| `faker.datatype.number` | `faker.number.int` or `faker.number.float` |
| `faker.datatype.float`  | `faker.number.float`                       |
| `faker.datatype.bigInt` | `faker.number.bigInt`                      |

### Deprecation of `faker.datatype.array`

The method `faker.datatype.array` has been deprecated and will be removed in v9.
If you need an array of useful values, you are better off creating your own one using `faker.helpers.multiple`.

### `allowLeadingZeros` behavior change in `faker.string.numeric`

The `allowLeadingZeros` boolean parameter in `faker.string.numeric` (in the new `string` module) now defaults to `true`. `faker.string.numeric` will now generate numeric strings that could have leading zeros by default.

### Simplified MIME type data

The functions `faker.system.mimeType`, `faker.system.fileType` and `faker.system.fileExt` now return data from a smaller set of more common MIME types, filetypes and extensions.

### `faker.helpers.unique` is planned to be outsourced

The `faker.helpers.unique` method is planned to be outsourced to a separate package.  
Please have a look at issue [#1785](https://github.com/faker-js/faker/issues/1785) for more details.

### Locales renamed

The `en_IND` (English, India) locale was renamed to `en_IN` for consistency with other locales.

The `cz` (Czech) locale was renamed to `cs_CZ` to use the standard ISO codes for language and country.

The `ge` (Georgian) locale was renamed to `ka_GE` to use the standard ISO codes for language and country.

Commit message:

docs: breaking array element behavior

docs/guide/upgrading.md, after:

# Upgrading to v8

This is the migration guide for upgrading from v7 to v8.

Since v8 has not yet been released, this is a work in progress list of any major and breaking changes in v8.

::: info Not the version you are looking for?

- [Upgrading to v7](https://v7.fakerjs.dev/guide/upgrading.html)
- [Upgrading to v6](https://v6.fakerjs.dev/migration-guide-v5/)

:::

## Breaking changes

### Removed ability to change the locale on existing `Faker` instances

::: tip Note
If you are using only the default (`en`) locale, then you don't have to change anything.
:::

In order to facilitate better and easier locale fallback mechanics, we removed the methods to change the locales on existing `Faker` instances.
Now, we expose specific faker instances for each locale that you can use:

**Old**

```ts
import { faker } from '@faker-js/faker';

faker.setLocale('de_CH');
// or
faker.locale = 'de_CH';
faker.fallbackLocale = 'en';
```

**New**

```ts
import { fakerDE_CH as faker } from '@faker-js/faker';
```

This also fixes issues where more than two locales are required:

**Old**

```ts
import { faker } from '@faker-js/faker';

const customFaker = new Faker({
  locale: 'de_CH', // the expected locale
  fallbackLocale: 'de', // ensure we have a German fallbacks for addresses
  locales: { de_CH, de, en },
});
const a = customFaker.internet.email();
customFaker.locale = 'en'; // neither 'de_CH' nor 'de' have emojis
const b = customFaker.internet.emoji();
```

**New**

```ts
import { Faker, de_CH, de, en, base } from '@faker-js/faker';

// same as fakerDE_CH
export const customFaker = new Faker({
  // Now multiple fallbacks are supported
  locale: [de_CH, de, en, base],
});
const a = customFaker.internet.email();
const b = customFaker.internet.emoji();
```

If you wish to create entries for multiple locales, you can still do so:

**Old**

```ts
import { faker } from '@faker-js/faker';

for (let user of users) {
  const lang = faker.helpers.arrayElement(['de', 'en', 'fr']);
  faker.locale = lang;
  user.email = faker.internet.email();
}
```

**New**

```ts
import { faker, fakerDE, fakerEN, fakerFR } from '@faker-js/faker';

for (let user of users) {
  const currentFaker = faker.helpers.arrayElement([fakerDE, fakerEN, fakerFR]);
  user.email = currentFaker.internet.email();
}
```

For more information refer to our [Localization Guide](localization).

### `faker.mersenne` and `faker.helpers.repeatString` removed

`faker.mersenne` and `faker.helpers.repeatString` were only ever intended for internal use, and are no longer available.

### `faker.location.zipCodeByState`

The `faker.location.zipCodeByState` method has been deprecated, but will also now throw an error if the current locale does not have a `postcode_by_state` definition.

### Methods will throw on empty data set inputs

The methods `faker.helper.arrayElement` and `faker.helper.arrayElements` previously defaulted the `array` argument to a simply string array if non was provided.
This behavior is no longer supported.

Additionally, by providing an empty array argument (`[]`) the functions previously returned `undefined`.
This behavior was undesired and has been removed.
The methods will now throw an `FakerError` instead.

The same thing happens now if you provide an empty object `{}` to `faker.helpers.objectKey` or `faker.helpers.objectValue`.

### Other deprecated methods removed/replaced

| Old method                      | New method                                                                                                      |
| ------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `faker.unique`                  | `faker.helpers.unique` (:warning: please have a look at [#1785](https://github.com/faker-js/faker/issues/1785)) |
| `faker.fake`                    | `faker.helpers.fake`                                                                                            |
| `faker.commerce.color`          | `faker.color.human`                                                                                             |
| `faker.company.companyName`     | `faker.company.name`                                                                                            |
| `faker.phone.phoneNumber`       | `faker.phone.number`                                                                                            |
| `faker.phone.phoneNumberFormat` | No direct replacement, see documentation for `faker.phone.number`                                               |
| `faker.phone.phoneFormats`      | No direct replacement, see documentation for `faker.phone.number`                                               |
| `faker.name.findName`           | _Removed, replace with `faker.person.fullName`_                                                                 |
| `faker.address.cityPrefix`      | _Removed_                                                                                                       |
| `faker.address.citySuffix`      | _Removed_                                                                                                       |
| `faker.address.streetPrefix`    | _Removed_                                                                                                       |
| `faker.address.streetSuffix`    | _Removed_                                                                                                       |
| `faker.image.lorempixel`        | _Removed, as the LoremPixel service is no longer available_                                                     |

### Definitions removed

Some data definitions, which were only available via the `faker.helpers.fake` method, or the undocumented `faker.definitions`, have been removed.

| Removed data                                          | Alternative                        |
| ----------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| `faker.definitions.business.credit_card_numbers`      | `faker.finance.creditCardNumber()` |
| `faker.definitions.business.credit_card_types`        | `faker.finance.creditCardIssuer()` |
| `faker.definitions.business.credit_card_expiry_dates` | `faker.date.future()`              |

## Deprecations and other changes

### `faker.name` changed to `faker.person`

The whole `faker.name` module is now located at `faker.person`, as it contains more information than just names.
The `faker.name.*` methods will continue to work as an alias in v8 and v9, but it is recommended to change to `faker.person.*`

| Old method                 | New method                                      |
| -------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| `faker.name.firstName`     | `faker.person.firstName`                        |
| `faker.name.lastName`      | `faker.person.lastName`                         |
| `faker.name.middleName`    | `faker.person.middleName`                       |
| `faker.name.fullName`      | `faker.person.fullName`                         |
| `faker.name.gender`        | `faker.person.gender`                           |
| `faker.name.sex`           | `faker.person.sex`                              |
| `faker.name.sexType`       | `faker.person.sexType`                          |
| `faker.name.prefix`        | `faker.person.prefix`                           |
| `faker.name.suffix`        | `faker.person.suffix`                           |
| `faker.name.jobTitle`      | `faker.person.jobTitle`                         |
| `faker.name.jobDescriptor` | `faker.person.jobDescriptor`                    |
| `faker.name.jobArea`       | `faker.person.jobArea`                          |
| `faker.name.jobType`       | `faker.person.jobType`                          |
| `faker.name.findName`      | _Removed, replace with `faker.person.fullName`_ |

### `faker.address` changed to `faker.location`

The whole `faker.address` module is now located at `faker.location`, as it contains more information than just addresses.
The `faker.address.*` methods will continue to work as an alias in v8 and v9, but it is recommended to change to `faker.location.*`

| Old method                          | New method                           |
| ----------------------------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| `faker.address.buildingNumber`      | `faker.location.buildingNumber`      |
| `faker.address.cardinalDirection`   | `faker.location.cardinalDirection`   |
| `faker.address.city`                | `faker.location.city`                |
| `faker.address.cityName`            | `faker.location.cityName`            |
| `faker.address.country`             | `faker.location.country`             |
| `faker.address.countryCode`         | `faker.location.countryCode`         |
| `faker.address.county`              | `faker.location.county`              |
| `faker.address.direction`           | `faker.location.direction`           |
| `faker.address.faker`               | `faker.location.faker`               |
| `faker.address.latitude`            | `faker.location.latitude`            |
| `faker.address.longitude`           | `faker.location.longitude`           |
| `faker.address.nearbyGPSCoordinate` | `faker.location.nearbyGPSCoordinate` |
| `faker.address.ordinalDirection`    | `faker.location.ordinalDirection`    |
| `faker.address.secondaryAddress`    | `faker.location.secondaryAddress`    |
| `faker.address.state`               | `faker.location.state`               |
| `faker.address.stateAbbr`           | `faker.location.stateAbbr`           |
| `faker.address.street`              | `faker.location.street`              |
| `faker.address.streetAddress`       | `faker.location.streetAddress`       |
| `faker.address.streetName`          | `faker.location.streetName`          |
| `faker.address.timeZone`            | `faker.location.timeZone`            |
| `faker.address.zipCode`             | `faker.location.zipCode`             |
| `faker.address.zipCodeByState`      | `faker.location.zipCodeByState`      |
| `faker.address.cityPrefix`          | _Removed_                            |
| `faker.address.citySuffix`          | _Removed_                            |
| `faker.address.streetPrefix`        | _Removed_                            |
| `faker.address.streetSuffix`        | _Removed_                            |

### Number methods of `faker.datatype` moved to new `faker.number` module

The number-related methods previously found in `faker.datatype` have been moved to a new `faker.number` module.
For the old `faker.datatype.number` method you should replace with `faker.number.int` or `faker.number.float` depending on the precision required.

By default, `faker.number.float` no longer defaults to a precision of 0.01

```js
// OLD
faker.datatype.number({ max: 100 }); // 35
faker.datatype.number({ max: 100, precision: 0.01 }); // 35.21
faker.datatype.float({ max: 100 }); // 35.21
faker.datatype.float({ max: 100, precision: 0.001 }); // 35.211

// NEW
faker.number.int({ max: 100 }); // 35
faker.number.float({ max: 100 }); // 35.21092065742612
faker.number.float({ max: 100, precision: 0.01 }); // 35.21
```

| Old method              | New method                                 |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| `faker.datatype.number` | `faker.number.int` or `faker.number.float` |
| `faker.datatype.float`  | `faker.number.float`                       |
| `faker.datatype.bigInt` | `faker.number.bigInt`                      |

### Deprecation of `faker.datatype.array`

The method `faker.datatype.array` has been deprecated and will be removed in v9.
If you need an array of useful values, you are better off creating your own one using `faker.helpers.multiple`.

### `allowLeadingZeros` behavior change in `faker.string.numeric`

The `allowLeadingZeros` boolean parameter in `faker.string.numeric` (in the new `string` module) now defaults to `true`. `faker.string.numeric` will now generate numeric strings that could have leading zeros by default.

### Simplified MIME type data

The functions `faker.system.mimeType`, `faker.system.fileType` and `faker.system.fileExt` now return data from a smaller set of more common MIME types, filetypes and extensions.

### `faker.helpers.unique` is planned to be outsourced

The `faker.helpers.unique` method is planned to be outsourced to a separate package.  
Please have a look at issue [#1785](https://github.com/faker-js/faker/issues/1785) for more details.

### Locales renamed

The `en_IND` (English, India) locale was renamed to `en_IN` for consistency with other locales.

The `cz` (Czech) locale was renamed to `cs_CZ` to use the standard ISO codes for language and country.

The `ge` (Georgian) locale was renamed to `ka_GE` to use the standard ISO codes for language and country.
