# Use High Precision RNG by default

TLDR: Many Faker methods will return a different result in v9 compared to v8 for the same seed.

In v9 we switch from a 32 bit random value to a 53 bit random value.
We don't change the underlying algorithm much, but we now consume two seed values each step instead of one.
This affects generated values in two ways:

- In large lists or long numbers the values are spread more evenly.
  This also reduces the number of duplicates it generates.
  For `faker.number.int()` this reduces the number of duplicates from `1 / 10_000` to less than `1 / 8_000_000`.
- If you start with the same initial seed to generate a value, you might see some changes in the results you get.
  This is because we're now working with a higher precision, which affects how numbers are rounded off.
  As a result, the methods we use might produce slightly different outcomes.
  And since we are now using two seed values each time subsequent results appear to skip a value each time.

```ts
import {
  SimpleFaker,
  generateMersenne32Randomizer,
  generateMersenne53Randomizer,
} from '@faker-js/faker';

// < v9 default
const f32 = new SimpleFaker({ randomizer: generateMersenne32Randomizer() });
f32.seed(123);
const r32 = f32.helpers.multiple(() => f32.number.int(10), { count: 10 });
// > v9 default
const f53 = new SimpleFaker({ randomizer: generateMersenne53Randomizer() });
f53.seed(123);
const r53 = f53.helpers.multiple(() => f53.number.int(10), { count: 5 });

diff(r32, r53);
//[
//  7,
//  7, // [!code --]
//  3,
//  4, // [!code --]
//  2,
//  7, // [!code --]
//  6,
//  7, // [!code --]
//  7,
//  5, // [!code --]
//]
```

## Adoption

If you don't have any seeded tests and just want some random values, then you don't have to change anything.

If you have seeded tests, you have to update most test snapshots or similar comparisons to new values.

If you are using vitest, you can do that using `pnpm vitest run -u`.

## Keeping the old behavior

You can keep the old behavior, if you create your own `Faker` instance
and pass a `Randomizer` instance from the `generateMersenne32Randomizer()` function to it.

```ts{8}
import {
  Faker,
  generateMersenne32Randomizer, // < v9 default
  generateMersenne53Randomizer, // > v9 default
} from '@faker-js/faker';

const faker = new Faker({
  randomizer: generateMersenne32Randomizer(),
  ...
});
```
